Added recipes for the first time (#559)
NCAS-CMS/cf-python: docs/source/recipes.rst

   .. code-block:: python

      >>> time = temp.coordinate('long_name=time')
      >>> c = time.create_bounds(cellsize=cf.M())
      >>> time.set_bounds(c)
      >>> time.dump()
      Dimension coordinate: long_name=time
          calendar = 'gregorian'
          long_name = 'time'
          units = 'days since 1900-1-1'
          Data(1452) = [1901-01-16 00:00:00, ..., 2021-12-16 00:00:00] gregorian
          Bounds:calendar = 'gregorian'
          Bounds:units = 'days since 1900-1-1'
          Bounds:Data(1452, 2) = [[1901-01-01 00:00:00, ..., 2022-01-01 00:00:00]] gregorian

8. Calculate and plot the area weighted mean surface temperature using the `~cf.Field.collapse` method:

   .. code-block:: python

      >>> global_avg = temp.collapse('area: mean', weights=True)
      >>> cfp.lineplot(global_avg, color='red', title='Global mean surface temperature')

   .. figure:: images/global_mean_temp.png

9. Calculate and plot the annual global mean surface temperature using `lineplot
<http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/lineplot.html>`:

   .. code-block:: python

      >>> annual_global_avg = global_avg.collapse('T: mean', group=cf.Y())

>       >>> cfp.lineplot(annual_global_avg, color='red', title='Annual global mean surface temperature')

Reviewer: Just so the command is all visible without scrolling:
```suggestion
      >>> cfp.lineplot(annual_global_avg,
      ...     color='red', title='Annual global mean surface temperature')
```

   .. figure:: images/annual_mean_temp.png

* Calculating and plotting the global average temperature anomalies:

1. The temperature values are averaged for the climatological period of 1961-1990 by slicing these years over the `~cf.Field.collapse` method:

   .. code-block:: python

>       >>> print(annual_global_avg[60:90])

Author: Hi David, thank you for all the suggestions! I had made some changes 66d24d22360ae9c26487519d724b8499f12c0b50 based on the suggestions, could you please have a look?

      Field: long_name=near-surface temperature (ncvar%tmp)
      -----------------------------------------------------
      Data            : long_name=near-surface temperature(long_name=time(30), long_name=latitude(1), long_name=longitude(1)) degrees Celsius
      Cell methods    : area: mean long_name=time(30): mean
      Dimension coords: long_name=time(30) = [1961-07-02 12:00:00, ..., 1990-07-02 12:00:00] gregorian
                      : long_name=latitude(1) = [0.0] degrees_north
                      : long_name=longitude(1) = [0.0] degrees_east
      >>> temp_clim = annual_global_avg[60:90].collapse('T: mean')

2. The temperature anomaly is then calculated by subtracting these climatological temperature values from the annual global average temperatures and plotting them using `lineplot

> <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/lineplot.html>`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/lineplot.html>`_:
```

3. Select near surface temperature by index and look at its contents:

   .. code-block:: python

      >>> temp = f[1]
      >>> print(temp)
      Field: long_name=near-surface temperature (ncvar%tmp)
      -----------------------------------------------------
      Data            : long_name=near-surface temperature(long_name=time(1452), long_name=latitude(360), long_name=longitude(720)) degrees Celsius
      Dimension coords: long_name=time(1452) = [1901-01-16 00:00:00, ..., 2021-12-16 00:00:00] gregorian
                      : long_name=latitude(360) = [-89.75, ..., 89.75] degrees_north
                      : long_name=longitude(720) = [-179.75, ..., 179.75] degrees_east

4. Average the monthly mean surface temperature values by the time axis using the `~cf.Field.collapse` method:

   .. code-block:: python

      >>> global_avg = temp.collapse('mean',  axes='long_name=time')

5. Plot the global mean surface temperatures using using `con <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/con.html>`:

   .. code-block:: python

      >>> cfp.con(global_avg, lines=False, title='Global mean surface temperature')
   .. figure:: images/global_mean_map.png

> **Comparing two datasets with different resolutions using regridding:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Comparing two datasets with different resolutions using regridding**
```

----------

In this recipe, we will regrid two different datasets with different resolutions. An example use case could be one where the observational dataset with a higher resolution needs to be regridded to that of the model dataset so that they can be compared with each other.

1. Import cf-python:

   .. code-block:: python

      >>> import cf

2. Read the field constructs using `~cf.read` function:

   .. code-block:: python

      >>> obs = cf.read('observation.nc')
      >>> print(obs)
      [<CF Field: ncvar%stn(long_name=time(120), long_name=latitude(360), long_name=longitude(720))>,

>       <CF Field: long_name=near-surface temperature(long_name=time(120), long_name=latitude(360), long_name=longitude(720)) degrees Celsius>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       <CF Field: long_name=near-surface temperature(long_name=time(120), long_name=latitude(360), long_name=longitude(720)) degrees Celsius>]
```

      >>> model = cf.read('model.nc')
      >>> print(model)
      [<CF Field: air_temperature(time(1980), latitude(144), longitude(192)) K>]

> 3. Select observation and model temperature by index and look at the contents:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select observation and model temperature fields by identity and index respectively, and look at their contents:
```

   .. code-block:: python

>       >>> obs_temp = obs[1]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      >>> obs_temp = obs.select('long_name=near-surface temperature')
```

.. currentmodule:: cf
.. default-role:: obj

.. TODODASK - review this entire section

> **Recipes using cf-python**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Recipes using cf**
```

3. Select near surface temperature by index and look at its contents:

   .. code-block:: python

      >>> temp = f[1]
      >>> print(temp)
      Field: long_name=near-surface temperature (ncvar%tmp)
      -----------------------------------------------------
      Data            : long_name=near-surface temperature(long_name=time(1452), long_name=latitude(360), long_name=longitude(720)) degrees Celsius
      Dimension coords: long_name=time(1452) = [1901-01-16 00:00:00, ..., 2021-12-16 00:00:00] gregorian
                      : long_name=latitude(360) = [-89.75, ..., 89.75] degrees_north
                      : long_name=longitude(720) = [-179.75, ..., 179.75] degrees_east

4. Average the monthly mean surface temperature values by the time axis using the `~cf.Field.collapse` method:

   .. code-block:: python

      >>> global_avg = temp.collapse('mean',  axes='long_name=time')

5. Plot the global mean surface temperatures using using `con <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/con.html>`_:

   .. code-block:: python

      >>> cfp.con(global_avg, lines=False, title='Global mean surface temperature')
   .. figure:: images/global_mean_map.png

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

----

```

   .. figure:: images/annual_mean_temp.png

Calculating and plotting the global average temperature anomalies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. The temperature values are averaged for the climatological period of 1961-1990 by defining a subspace within these years using `cf.wi` query instance over `~cf.Field.subspace` and doing a statistical collapse with the `~cf.Field.collapse` method:

   .. code-block:: python

      >>> annual_global_avg_61_90 = annual_global_avg.subspace(T=cf.year(cf.wi(1961, 1990)))
      >>> print(annual_global_avg_61_90)
      Field: long_name=near-surface temperature (ncvar%tmp)
      -----------------------------------------------------
      Data            : long_name=near-surface temperature(long_name=time(30), long_name=latitude(1), long_name=longitude(1)) degrees Celsius
      Cell methods    : area: mean long_name=time(30): mean
      Dimension coords: long_name=time(30) = [1961-07-02 12:00:00, ..., 1990-07-02 12:00:00] gregorian
                      : long_name=latitude(1) = [0.0] degrees_north
                      : long_name=longitude(1) = [0.0] degrees_east

>       >>> temp_clim = annual_global_avg_61_90.collapse('T: mean')

Reviewer: Perhaps put a `print(temp_clim)` in here?

                      : longitude(192) = [0.9375, ..., 359.0625] degrees_east
                      : height(1) = [1.5] m
      Coord references: grid_mapping_name:latitude_longitude

4. Regrid observational data to that of the model data (`~cf.Field.regrids` method) and create a new low resolution observational data using bilinear interpolation:

   .. code-block:: python

      >>> obs_temp_regrid = obs_temp.regrids(model_temp, method='bilinear')
      >>> print(obs_temp_regrid)
      Field: long_name=near-surface temperature (ncvar%tmp)
      -----------------------------------------------------
      Data            : long_name=near-surface temperature(long_name=time(1452), latitude(144), longitude(192)) degrees Celsius
      Dimension coords: long_name=time(1452) = [1901-01-16 00:00:00, ..., 2021-12-16 00:00:00] gregorian
                      : latitude(144) = [-89.375, ..., 89.375] degrees_north
                      : longitude(192) = [0.9375, ..., 359.0625] degrees_east
      Coord references: grid_mapping_name:latitude_longitude

----

**Plotting wind vectors overlaid on precipitation data**
----------

> In this recipe, we will plot northward and eastward wind components over precipitation data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this recipe we will plot wind vectors, derived from northward and eastward wind components, over precipitation data.
```

1. Import cf-python and cf-plot:

   .. code-block:: python

      >>> import cf
      >>> import cfplot as cfp

> 2. Read the field constructs using `~cf.read` function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Read the field constructs using `cf.read` function:
```

   .. code-block:: python

      >>> f1 = cf.read('northward.nc')
      >>> print(f1)
      [<CF Field: northward_wind(time(1980), latitude(144), longitude(192)) m s-1>]
      
      >>> f2 = cf.read('eastward.nc')
      >>> print(f2)
      [<CF Field: eastward_wind(time(1980), latitude(144), longitude(192)) m s-1>]

      >>> f3 = cf.read('monthly_precipitation.nc')
      >>> print(f3)
      [<CF Field: long_name=precipitation(long_name=time(1452), latitude(144), longitude(192)) mm/month>]

> 3. Select near surface temperature by index and look at its contents:

Reviewer: Not "near surface temperature" here ...

                      : longitude(192) = [0.0, ..., 358.125] degrees_east
                      : height(1) = [10.0] m

      >>> u = f2[0]
      >>> print(u)
      Field: eastward_wind (ncvar%uas)
      --------------------------------
      Data            : eastward_wind(time(1980), latitude(144), longitude(192)) m s-1
      Cell methods    : area: time(1980): mean
      Dimension coords: time(1980) = [1850-01-16 00:00:00, ..., 2014-12-16 00:00:00] 360_day
                      : latitude(144) = [-89.375, ..., 89.375] degrees_north
                      : longitude(192) = [0.0, ..., 358.125] degrees_east
                      : height(1) = [10.0] m

      >>> pre = f3[0]
      >>> print(pre)
      Field: long_name=precipitation (ncvar%pre)
      ------------------------------------------
      Data            : long_name=precipitation(long_name=time(1452), latitude(144), longitude(192)) mm/month
      Dimension coords: long_name=time(1452) = [1901-01-16 00:00:00, ..., 2021-12-16 00:00:00] gregorian
                      : latitude(144) = [-89.375, ..., 89.375] degrees_north
                      : longitude(192) = [0.0, ..., 358.125] degrees_east

> 4. Plot the northward and eastward wind components over precipitation data for June 1995 by creating a subspace (`~cf.Field.subspace`) over a date-time object (`cf.dt`) using `cfplot.con <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/con.html>`_. Here `cfplot.gopen <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/gopen.html>`_ is used to define the parts of the plot area, which is closed by `cfplot.gclose <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/gclose.html>`_, `cfplot.cscale <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/cscale.html>`_ is used to choose one of the colour maps amongst many available,`cfplot.levs <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/levs.html>`_ is used to set the contour levels for precipitation data and `cfplot.vect <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/vect.html>`_ is used to plot the wind vectors for June 1995:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Plot the wind vectors on top of precipitation data for June 1995 by creating a subspace (`~cf.Field.subspace`) with a date-time object (`cf.dt`) and using `cfplot.con <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/con.html>`_. Here `cfplot.gopen <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/gopen.html>`_ is used to define the parts of the plot area, which is closed by `cfplot.gclose <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/gclose.html>`_; `cfplot.cscale <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/cscale.html>`_ is used to choose one of the colour maps amongst many available; `cfplot.levs <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/levs.html>`_ is used to set the contour levels for precipitation data; and `cfplot.vect <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/vect.html>`_ is used to plot the wind vectors for June 1995:
```

   .. code-block:: python

      >>> cfp.gopen()
      >>> cfp.cscale('precip4_11lev')
      >>> cfp.levs(step=100)

>       >>> cfp.con(pre.subspace(T=cf.dt('1995-06-16')), lines=False, title = 'June 1995 monthly global precipitation')

Reviewer: Could we prevent the long-line scrolling on this and the next line?

Reviewer: could to `>>> june_95 = cf.dt('1995-06-16'))` and then `subspace(T=june_95)` three times?

Or per (better?) `>>> june_95 = cf.year(1995) & cf.month(6)`. Could be better because  it doesn't rely on knowing where the representative day of the months is (it's 16 in this case, but presumably could be 15 for Feb 95)

Author: When a subspace is created after setting june_95 using ` >>> june_95 = cf.year(1995) & cf.month(6)`, it raises a ValueError `”Can’t create date-time object with unknown calendar {calendar!r}”` and a TypeError: `an integer is required`. I also tried adding a `calendar='360_day'` to `cf.dt` but still the samre result.

      Dimension coords: long_name=time(1452) = [1901-01-16 00:00:00, ..., 2021-12-16 00:00:00] gregorian
                      : latitude(144) = [-89.375, ..., 89.375] degrees_north
                      : longitude(192) = [0.0, ..., 358.125] degrees_east

4. Plot the wind vectors on top of precipitation data for June 1995 by creating a subspace (`~cf.Field.subspace`) with a date-time object (`cf.dt`) and using `cfplot.con <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/con.html>`_. Here `cfplot.gopen <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/gopen.html>`_ is used to define the parts of the plot area, which is closed by `cfplot.gclose <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/gclose.html>`_; `cfplot.cscale <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/cscale.html>`_ is used to choose one of the colour maps amongst many available; `cfplot.levs <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/levs.html>`_ is used to set the contour levels for precipitation data; and `cfplot.vect <http://ajheaps.github.io/cf-plot/vect.html>`_ is used to plot the wind vectors for June 1995:

   .. code-block:: python

      >>> june_95 = cf.year(1995) & cf.month(6)
      >>> cfp.gopen()
      >>> cfp.cscale('precip4_11lev')
      >>> cfp.levs(step=100)

>       >>> cfp.con(pre.subspace(T=june_95), lines=False, title = 'June 1995 monthly global precipitation')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      >>> cfp.con(pre.subspace(T=june_95),
      ...         lines=False, title = 'June 1995 monthly global precipitation')
```

>       >>> cfp.vect(u=u.subspace(T=june_95), v=v.subspace(june_95), key_length=10, scale=35, stride=5)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      >>> cfp.vect(u=u.subspace(T=june_95), v=v.subspace(T=june_95),
      ...          key_length=10, scale=35, stride=5)
```
